Well I watched a youtube video hosted by  Robert Downey Junior about Artificial Intelligence ( AI ) and they told us how AI can be very helpful in upcoming future .

After that I watched the youtube video series of neural networks by 3 Blue 1 Brown ( Akhil had already told me about this video series and neural nets , but I could not understand this video series then and my motivation to learn this was also low ! ) and also attended and followed an NPTEL course on youtube about Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence upto half of it's length .

I was also reading an introductory book on Neural Networking by Michael Neilson and it was told in that book , starting from level zero , what is a Neural Network , how can we optimise it's learning process and how to make a realistic Neural Network for yourself and make it better and better by modifying the cost function and other things etc .

I learnt all of the neural networking from Michael Neilson's book , 3 Blue 1 Brown's video series and the NPTEL course was also helpful in getting me the rigour of machine learning .

Motivated by the Michael Neilson's book and his teachings , I tried to make a neural network which could recognise hand written digits with very good accuracy , as he told the reader to do in his book . It took me about 3 to 4 months to make this neural network and after such long time , the accuracy of my neural network in recognising the handwritten digits was more than 95 percent . It was a win win for me . I was a celebrity for Akhil for a day or two !

Although I was successful , but my journey was not bread and butter in any way . At first , I abandoned the idea to make such a neural network , simply because it was way too tough . So I tried to make a neural network to tell if a number is greater or less than zero . I tried with 2 layers of neural network and with 10 neurons each . Then I realised that the maths was too hard for me to handle . I tried with single layer and I also could not do that . Finally I took just a single neuron and trained my single neural network on thousand sample data points , then 1 lakh and then even 1 crore ! After that I tried multiple neurons in a single layer , I worked out the maths first and it was all matrices and vectors , but still tough one !

After that I added another layer and tried with that . But I found the best results with single layer and 5 to 10 neurons . It was working ! An artificial machinistic brain which can be trained and knows what to do without exiplicitly telling him what to do ! It was good for me .

It was all before I read Michael Neilson's book thoroughly . When I started studying it seriously , I learnt how to use cross entropy cost function , how to use data points more efficiently and how to improve backpropagation method more effectively in order to avoid overfit and underfit conditions . Then I gained enough knowledge to make the handwritten digits recogniser AI and I tried it .

At first , I got very bad results . I was expecting too much from it . I improved my code day by day , learning something new everyday from Neilson's book , sometimes it was bread and butter and sometime it was too hard for me to understand and so I studied my university course of Physics and try out the neural net thing later ! I didn't hold back and I invested a lot of time and effort . I finally was able to make my neural network so much better and it was good for me .

I would like to say one thing though , I used no inbuilt python library for neural networking and machine learning e.g. Keras , ScikitLearn , TensorFlow etc. ( I used just numpy and matplotlib ) Otherwise a good programmer can make such a neural network in less than a week , I guess . Because you know he/she doesn't have to know the all the maths behind that is going on and a lot of details . Also , I didn't have any experience in making neural networks before , so it took me so long .

I could have used all of those library ( because if they are there , why not use them ! It saves you a lot of effort ) but there was no way for me to use those library because they could not be installed in the termux version of archlinux . And in my tab , I also lacked GUI and  jupyter notebook . Nevertheless I did it and it was just for my self satisfaction . I didn't do it for the purpose of being a software engineer or computer scientist kind of thing . I did it because it felt great and I enjoyed it !
